CSCB58 Project File: Summer 2017
 
Team Member A
-------------
First Name: Patrick
Last Name: Ocampo

Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Brian
Last Name: Chim
 
Team Member C
-------------
First Name: Mason
Last Name: Tang

Team Member D (Optional)
-------------
First Name: Richard
Last Name: Wei

Project Details
---------------
Project Title: Snake
 
Project Description: 
A simple take on the classic game of snake (with a few extra features like high score and possibly multiplayer version like the Tron game)
 
Video URL: [pending]
Code URL (please upload a copy of this file to your repository at the end of the project as well, it will
serve as a useful resource for future development): https://github.com/thisisafakename/b58_snake
 
Proposal
--------
What do you plan to have completed by the end of the first lab session?:
Be able to get a proper VGA connection with the given monitor and create moving objects to be displayed on 
said monitor as well as create a counter for the high score.

What do you plan to have completed by the end of the second lab session?:
Have the basic features of Snake implemented (snake collision with walls and itself, growing the snake every 
time it hits a certain object, etc).
 
What do you plan to have completed by the end of the third lab session?:
Debug any remaining issues and get multiplayer done.
 
What is your backup plan if things don’t work out as planned?
Create the game of Simon Says.
 
What hardware will you need beyond the DE2 board?
- Joysticks 
- Monitor
 
Motivations
-----------
How does this project relate to the material covered in CSCB58?:
We will be utilizing a joystick as input to the movement of a snake and utilize flip-flops to create a finite state 
machine to monitor the different states of the snake (size of the snake, snake collision, snake direction).
 
Why is this project interesting/cool (for CSCB58 students, and for non CSCB58 students?):
This project will involve us taking a simple arcade classic and creating our own enhanced version of it using 
the knowledge gained from lectures and previous labs.
 
Why did you personally choose this project?:
We wanted to extend our knowledge of FSMs to recreate the game of snake which utilizes many different 
and constantly changing states.
 
Attributions
------------
Provide a complete list of any external resources your project used (attributions should also be included in 
your code). 
[resources pending]
 
Updates
-------
